## Haskell By Day

I had played around with Clojure for a couple of years by 2015. I really wanted to use it for more than just a toy-project, and when we had to build a data pipeline for my employer, I was more than happy to give it a try.
I hired a developer for our team who had more serious functional programming background than I had. He joined the the team and started doing interesting things with our code base like separating out functions based on purity, and placed all "dirty" functions under a different namespace. He also used currying like no one I had seen before.

I asked him, how he knows so much about FP. His answer was plain and simple: "I've been learning Haskell." Oh. I have always thought Haskell is this far-out, esoteric, academic language that no one uses. I realized he knew more Clojure just by learning Haskell. Then he showed me Elm and I was blown away. (Elm has its roots in Haskell, it's a similar ML language.)

Then a couple of months later I watched Chad Fowler's [talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sAsRtZEGMMQ&t=6s) about his adventures at WunderList and he talked about a routing application that they wrote in &lt;50 lines of Haskell. It never went done and was fast as it could be. His message (the one that I picked up anyway) was "Haskell, Haskell, learn Haskell".

I started digging into the language by following the examples from the book [Learn You a Haskell for Great Good](http://learnyouahaskell.com/). It was an easy read, I cruising through the examples in GHCi (REPL). The I stopped looking at it for about 2-3 months as something came up. I went back to it and was shocked to realize that I did not remember anything. Zero. What the heck is this weird syntax `(x:xs)`?

I realized I needed not only to read the book and try the examples in a REPL, but I had to keep coming back to them, and most importantly, practice them. The author of the Haskell Book, Chris Allen had a good talk on [how to learn Haskell](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bg9ccYzMbxc) in &lt;5 years. The message is simple: learn by doing. And keep doing it. This is how my little learning project [haskell-katas](https://www.github.com/adomokos/haskell-katas) was born. I needed something I could come back to and practice with. It had mostly helped, however, I was still confused by its error messages and type classes, but little by little, with more reading and practice, some of those concepts began to make sense.

I liked my employer, we worked on some interesting problems, but I wanted to try myself on the job market, see how marketable my skills are. At one point I had to solve a tetris game challenge for a company as a take-home exercise. I knew they were interested in folks with functional thinking. I had no intention working on that problem in Ruby/Python/JavaScript, but I thought it would be interesting to come up with a solution in Haskell. They said I could do it in Haskell and I jumped on the task. I began working on it on a Friday afternoon and I played with the problem for an hour or two to see how I could represent the data with Algebraic Data Types and maybe map the different shapes on the board. When that worked, I knew I'll be able to submit a solution. I worked on it on Saturday and Sunday and by Monday morning I had the solution working. I submitted my solution 3 days early and got invited for an in-person interview. This was the moment I realized I might be able to find a job working with Haskell.

I wanted to find a position where I could use Haskell by day, as the 1 or 2 hours here and there in the evening or weekends will never allow me to learn the language fully. I found a job posting on StackOverflow that listed Haskell as a requirement, here in Chicago. I applied, and after a few rounds of interviews I received an offer from them which I accepted.

We are working on a student loan solutions for the UK market. Haskell is the brain of the application, all the different calculation models and rules are coded with it. I was intrigued to work for the only company in Chicago that uses Haskell. I started my job about a month ago and boy, it's been an adventure. I feel very slow sometimes, but more productive when I submit a change that makes the code a bit easier to test. However, I had to dive into a couple of days of learning just to interact with JSON. All in all I am super happy that I can do something by day that I learned at night, and with this change I can take my functional programming skills to a new level.

You might ask: How about Ruby? Am I still using? Oh yeah, we have an API app in Rails, plus I started mentoring our intern by pairing with him on different challenges in Ruby a couple of times a week. We also have a fairly significant code base in Python that our data scientists put together to test the Haskell component. I enjoy going into there and help the team make the code better.
